Bugatti wreck em squad report
Introduction
In this report we’ll be going over what has currently happened in the car game project in the team Bugatti wreck em squad and going over what I’ve personally done in this project, what we’ve done as a team, what has gone well with the project and moments we’re proud of and moments that didn’t go exactly to plan. We’ll then end with a round up on what could’ve been done either differently or better and things that if we could re-do we’d do differently.
Starting off
To start things off when we got assigned our group we quickly made a group page and discussed what people wanted to do discussed the individual strengths of each member and what they thought they’d like to contribute. I was assigned to do the deformation of the car which was what I volunteered to do.  After we’d all decided on what we were working on we decided to hold a weekly meeting on skype to make sure we’d be able to talk about what’d been done and how things are coming along.  This was a very good idea as it allowed us to constantly have updates on what was going on with the project and how things were going in every area. We also decided to try and come into the games lab as often as time allowed to make sure we were working together and were able to discuss together in person as well. We also set up a google calendar where we would update when we finished a role specific portion of the project and what we were going to move onto next. This was helpful to see what people were working on, when they believed they’d be done with it and what people were working on next to make sure no one was working on the same thing without knowing about it.
To start with deformation we were informed that it was preferred if we allowed the artists to create the deformed assets and that we try and figure a way out to deform them using the assets given to us. With this information I started to do some research on ways to try and work this through. Initially I was thinking to try and swap meshes around to try and swap from one mesh to another. However the more and more I researched into this the more people seemed to say this was a rather difficult method. The method that I ended up deciding on was a much more simple method which initially involved two different car models, one normal and one that was dented. The idea is that in the scene the two cars would be on top of each other, one would be active in the scene and the other would be inactive. When the car would collide with another object it’d set the normal models active to false and set the dented models active to true. Initially I had a few worries with this method, particularly around when the car switched wouldn’t it just slow down to a halt and having to attach two driving physics codes to two separate cars, and would the one set to false come into play awkwardly. To begin testing this I initially tested it without collision and started the swap via a button press, firstly to see if this method would work and also to see how smoothly the transition between the swap would be. Thankfully the swap turned out to be a lot smoother than I initially expected, swapping the models seamlessly. After this initial test I then put my code onto our fully coded car to see if it’d affect the car physics with the switch. However I had some problems getting them to switch as there seemed to be some parental problems with the unity hierarchy. I could set the main model to false but the new model could not be set to true due to it being a child. The way I fixed this was I made the car an empty game object and put all the models inside this. This allowed me to swap the models. After I’d gotten this working I set to work with switching it to swap upon collision, this part was a fairly simple transition and currently am using tags to judge what collides.  After this I asked the artists to create some models with some more deformed modes to it so that I could possible make it so certain areas deform upon collision rather than everything. This is where I’ve hit a wall with the method I’m currently using. So far I’ve added in a health system which swaps either the texture of the car or the model of the car upon reaching a certain threshold.
As for the team we’ve all been very co-operative and everyone seemed very hungry to try their best for this project starting up our Facebook group and constantly telling people updates on what was happening and posting videos to the group page to show off what had been done. Overall I’m very happy with how our team has communicated and worked together, and everyone being understanding of others situations and helping out others when others needed help.
Areas that didn’t go to plan
One of the major things that seemed to hurt our team was sometimes we’d think we’d get something done a lot sooner than I expected, myself included on this.  We’d sometimes say that we’d get certain bits of code or assets down in a short amount of time and underestimate the actual amount of work surrounding it and the amount of work that conflicted outside of this project. Whilst overall our team had good synergy and we managed to get our core ideas down, sometimes they’d be a bit over due, mainly due to us underestimating the amount of work required on some of the smaller parts. Another area we could have done better on was how we managed our work on Github and how we’d manage our code. For a while it was a bit messy and we didn’t handle it as well as we could have, we decided that it’d be best if we then created our own individual branches of the project and have Raul manage all push requests.
For a personal area that didn’t go as planned was with trying to get the deformation to happen upon collision with specific areas of the car. I thought at first I could just use my code as normal and just expand it to other areas, however my problem was that I struggled to figure out a way to get collision to detect on a certain specific point of an object. My way of working around this was to just have multiple different models of the car in different deformation states and have it swap out at certain health levels. This is something that I’d definitely like to try and work on and fix up as whilst I’m happy with how smoothly the models swap and how it doesn’t affect the player, I’m not happy with how sudden the changes can be from car to car and would like to work more on making the changes seem smoother.
If I was given the chance to restart the project with the knowledge that I have gained throughout this time there are a few things I’d either change or do differently. To start I’d start working on the method I found earlier and stop trying to figure out any other ways so I could work on it sooner, I’d also do more research on specific collision coding and how it can work via Unitys hierarchy system. Team work wise I’d just force myself to update my calendar more often to show where I was without having to tell someone. 
Conclusion
In the end I’m still very happy with what myself and my team have achieved over these past months and I feel that we’ve all learnt a lot as individuals and as a team. We’ve managed to create the basis of our desired car game and have the desire to continue on and shape it into the game we wanted it to be. As stated earlier there were a few things personally that I’d do slightly differently, however when it comes to how we worked as a team and how we sorted out weekly meetings I’d honestly not change anything. Whilst there were a few things that didn’t get done on time and a few issues when it came to my deformation this project has taught me a lot about working as a team and on an individual coding level.

